---
tags: [DailyNote, October, 2022-W44]
category:
status:
---

## Daily Note - Saturday 29th October 2022

---
[[2022-10-28]]|[[2022-10-30]]

---

### Notes for the Day:
#### Active Projects
##### Rookies
[[Moto the Bruiser]]
##### Website
##### Skull Arrowhead
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]

#### Notes
##### Day Outline + Goals
At 1 later today I need to leave with Michaella to go down and party with my family at the Harry Potter themed Halloween party. Before going down, I need to make sure that Michaella and I get a chance to talk about the Missionaries Dinner tomorrow and what we want to do for that. After we have a plan in place I need to do a store run so she can have time to get everything ready before we go.

I am wanting to do more with my own personal projects and portfolio. Currently I haven't been able to devote much time, but that in part is due to the fact that I have been working on a workflow that can be used for better organization within obsidian. This takes time, but it can still be evolving while I put attention in other places.  With that in mind I think the things that I should focus on today, if I get time, is finishing setting up the information on my portfolio website, finishing my [[Skull-Arrowhead]] pendant, and working on [[Moto the Bruiser]].

- Update About Me page
- Finish Blocking [[Skull-Arrowhead]]
- Update Sketch for [[Moto the Bruiser]] (record for [[Imps and Robo Robbers]])
- Begin looking at c

##### Thoughts
I don't know what it is about me that is so fearful of talking with Michaella or of gaining and keeping my fellow man's approval.  I ought not be so but I am and it is a severe weakness that I don't know how to overcome. I think that is partially why I was told to marry Michaella because she is probably the most intimidating person I know to disagree or talk with.  I need to be more bold and fearless, but that means really locking down what it is that I believe and understand which is something that I have been neglecting for quite some time now. 

#### Questions to Ponder
Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:
- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?
- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?
- I have worldly obligations here.  
	- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  
	- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?


### Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-10-29)
```

### Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-10-29) and due < date(2022-11-05)
sort default(due, "") ASC
```

### Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20221029"

```
---
[[2022-10-29]] | [[2022-10]] | [[2022-W44]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-10-29 01:34
Note Modification Date: Saturday 29th October 2022 01:34:16 

--- 
> It's better to be a lion for a day than a sheep all your life.
> — <cite>Elizabeth Kenny</cite>