---
tags: [DailyNote, November, 2022-W45, Journal]
category:
status:
---

# Daily Note - Saturday 5th November 2022

---
[[2022-11-04]]|[[2022-11-06]]

---

## Notes for the Day:
### Active Projects
#### Rookies
[[Moto the Bruiser]]
#### Website
#### Skull Arrowhead
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]
#### Humble Bundles

### Notes
#### Day Outline + Goals
Make it through work, clean the house a little, and work on project organization.
#### Journal Entry
Not a lot to really mention today. This was my first time working a weekend for the Code Ninjas program.  I honesty really do like the work and would love to do this kind of thing professionally. However, while that is absolutely the case, I cannot stay at this job for long as it really does not pay enough. I am learning while there some pretty awesome technical skills and will be able to practice some of my own stuff as well so I am really hoping to spend as much time as possible working on my portfolio projects and jewelry work.

Michaella is still not 100% better from a virus she caught Tuesday [[2022-11-01]] night but really didn't fully come down with until Wednesday morning [[2022-11-02]]. Gwenn called that morning and made Michaella schedule a doctor's appointment which was good because she at the very least needed to report that the last antibiotic that she was given caused her chest to break out in hives. She ended up being prescribed an antiviral medication Tamiflu and she has been able to take that without visible trauma which is good.  She is doing much better today, especially considering that she ended up teaching the YLS (Mount Pleasant Homeschool Group) on Thursday [[2022-11-03]] and spending at least an hour outside exposed to the elements working to catch the final 3 kittens from a student's house. She managed to catch 1, but she was experienced prolonged cold exposure and stayed up late.  I was also called into work Friday [[2022-11-04]] Morning and that meant I couldn't help take Worf out that afternoon or evening. 

I guess I have just been really impressed with just how much Michaella has been able to get done with her classes and with life in general while feeling under the weather. I have been pretty worried about her as this has definitely not been easy for her, but she has done amazingly well and I am proud of her.

Speaking of myself, however, I have been a little tired/spent today and I am really feeling the weight of finishing everything today. The house needs a lot of help as I have been pretty busy just trying to keep up with work. I have been trying to do some of the curriculum at home and there was a lot of student grading to get caught up on that had been piling up while the Dojo was in a state of transition.  The good thing is that I can clock in to work on grading and get paid for it. But anyway, that was kind of stressing me out nebulously in the back of my mind.  That wouldn't have been too much of an issue but it ended up making me just want to chill in my free time and so I have mostly just been playing Splitgate this week with every spare moment I have.

That or thinking upon religion and Denver Snuffer's talks and blogposts. I am coming to appreciate just how much I am a "Trivia" saint and not a "Faith" saint. Faith is a principle of ACTION. I have not molded my personal life after the pattern I have been taught or introduced to.  I am beginning to, but regressed significantly in the time I have been bitter, shut down, and hard hearted.  I am not Faithless, however, and hope to kindle what I have and even if it is only a small change here and there at first, I will stick with it.

I had some interesting thoughts about Love today and wrote time down here [[Love]]. I need to do more to document the knowledge I have or been exposed to.  I am really liking the personal task organization aspect that I have been able to figure out in obsidian, but I would really like do more to develop the second brain aspect of it as well.
## Backlog
[[D-Past Due & No Date]]

## Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-11-05)
GROUP BY header
```

## Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-11-05) and due < date(2022-11-12)
sort default(due, "") ASC
GROUP BY header
```

## Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20221105"

```
---
[[2022-11-05]] | [[2022-11]] | [[2022-W45]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-11-05 21:29
Note Modification Date: Saturday 5th November 2022 21:29:49 

---
### Questions to Ponder
	Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:

	- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?

	- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?

	- I have worldly obligations here.  
		- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  

		- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?

--- 
> It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages.
> — <cite>Friedrich Nietzsche</cite>