---
tags: [DailyNote, October, 2022-W43]
category:
status:
---

## Daily Note - Sunday 23rd October 2022

---
[[2022-10-22]]|[[2022-10-24]]

---

### Notes for the Day:
Reading in D&C 84
52 struck me. Without receiving the voice of the Lord we are not aquatinted with His voice, ways, thoughts.  We are not walking with Him, we are not of Him and He says to use that as a metric to know whether or not they are wicked or not.
54-56 state the whole church is under condemnation, even all.
57 Gives the reason as to why the church is under condemnation; because they repent not in remembering the new covenant even the Book of Mormon and the old commandments.  In that day in included the new translation of the bible and the BoM, in our day it is the same but also the commandments of Joseph and Hyrum. The BoM was not even taught as a critical part of the religion until Hugh Nibbly vouched for it, but even then, 58 states that the intention is for the members to produce fruit. Which fruit is to receive the testimony of Christ which is to say that Christ has promised them that they will be saved that gives that individual the hope or expectation that their salvation is assured as it was received by a Covenant by He who can not lie. Thus even though the church may claim that is past, it means nothing without producing the natural fruit.

Pax and Maryn will not make it to the Halloween party

Circles is the app for connection...

Clubhouse, Wednesday Nov 2nd 6:00pm
- Share cool interests 
- Tech or otherwise
- 
Turkey Bowl: Nov 19

Issues in Elders
- Parents Divorced, Father abusing alcohol to cope
- Nursing Home asked to give blessing to release from life
- Do you replace all tires for snow and all wheel drive vehicle or just two?
	- Replace all 4
- Grandmother was hiding from Father who didn't find them and killed himself instead of them though he would have killed them if he could.  Married an alcoholic, and daughter found a good man and the church but was abused, and he enjoys a good life, was sealed to his family for the first few yesterday.
- Great Aunt married great Uncle, and he was not a member, they were sealed yesterday.

### Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-10-23)
```

### Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-10-23) and due < date(2022-10-30)
sort default(due, "") ASC
```

### Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20221023"

```
---
[[2022-10-23]] | [[2022-10]] | [[2022-W43]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-10-23 10:01
Note Modification Date: Sunday 23rd October 2022 10:01:13 

--- 
Error generating daily quote