---
tags: [DailyNote, November, 2022-W49]
category:
status:
---

# Daily Note - Wednesday 30th November 2022

---
[[2022-11-29]]|[[2022-12-01]]

---

## Notes for the Day:
### Active Projects
#### Rookies
[[Moto the Bruiser]]
#### Website
#### Skull Arrowhead
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]
#### Humble Bundles

### Notes
#### Day Outline + Goals
So Gwenn is pretty stressed about everything related to the wedding so I will be going down to do some work for her today. Michaella is staying the night and working on her final changes to her scripts. I need to make a list of things that still need to be done and get started on that.

- ~~Get my engine code reset~~
- Work on Code Ninjas Belt
- look to see if I can get the right part for Michaella's car
- ~~Bring my painted mini to work to show Tyler~~
- ~~Test print a label with the thermal printer
- ~~Start Dishwasher
- Finish folding clothes
- Vacuum
- ~~Take out the rest of the trash
- Look for deals on a new phone
- Work on the design for Paxton's ring

#### Journal Entry
I have had the promise given to me by the spirit that I will be able to have the opportunity to receive instruction in the temple that will be built by the remnant, or at least that I will have the ability to have my endowment in a temple but I think it is closer to the first statement. I think the phrasing that came into my mind was something along the lines of I will have the opportunity to come and receive what I offer in my temple.  I sincerely believe this promise even though it means that in my day a temple will be built that is acceptable to the Lord and I will be able to have access to it. The idea is delightful to my soul but I need to be humble for it was not promised that I would be taught in His temple, but that I would have the opportunity to. I still need to be humble and receive it by being one with great faith in Christ and quick to repent, preferring God's way to my own. (Technically this promise was delivered yesterday on the 29th of November)
## Backlog
[[D-Past Due & No Date]]

## Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-11-30)
GROUP BY header
```

## Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-11-30) and due < date(2022-12-07)
sort default(due, "") ASC
GROUP BY header
```

## Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20221130"

```
---
[[2022-11-30]] | [[2022-11]] | [[2022-W49]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-11-30 01:34
Note Modification Date: Wednesday 30th November 2022 01:34:22 

---
### Questions to Ponder
	Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:
	- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?
	- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?
	- I have worldly obligations here.  
		- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  
		- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?

--- 
> Focusing your life solely on making a buck shows a poverty of ambition. It asks too little of yourself. And it will leave you unfulfilled.
> — <cite>Barack Obama</cite>