---
tags: [DailyNote, October, 2022-W41, Journal]
category:
status:
---

## Daily Note - Tuesday 4th October 2022

---
[[2022-10-04]] | [[2022-10]] | [[2022-W41]]

---

### Notes for the Day:
I don't know how to proceed... 
What I intend to do is go through the gospel and learn for my self the truth of each tenant espoused with in the BoM and by Joseph Smith.  There are 2 primary competing threads that are being espoused at large in the world today among those who claim to believe in both of these sources that I would give the most credence to.  One thread of reasoning is being espoused by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints and one is being espoused by Denver. I am aware of both threads of argument for the most part and have thought on these things most of my life. However, I have not taken upon myself to work through the competing views grace by grace allowing God to vouch for His truth. That is what I am determined to do with or without Michaella, though I would vastly prefer parsing this all out with her at my side.
However, the fact of the matter is that this will be a long work.  I will not be able to come to the truth of things for a long time in coming and that begs the question of how to proceed? I can make a list of all contradictions I am aware of between these two lines of reasoning and give that to Michaella and let her choose whether she would want to be apart of that journey, we can make a list of all the gospel topics, I can begin with the least challenging and work down or visa versa, or a great deal more approaches would do. No matter what is chosen, however, I think I would like to follow rules laid out below.
The rules I will be attempting to follow:
- Give the definition by which we both understand the concept at present and write it out
- Proceed upon the presence of the Spirit
- Strive to keep preconceived notions from tinting our study and strive to let the scriptures become a Urim and Thummim
- Topics should be reasoned to the best of our abilities based on what we study and then taken in humility to God for His guidance
- The guidance we receive ought to be written down to contrast the original definition

### Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-10-04)
```

### Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-10-04) and due < date(2022-10-11)
```

---
[[2022-10-03]]|[[2022-10-05]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-10-04 00:13
Note Modification Date: Tuesday 4th October 2022 00:13:15 

--- 
> To wear your heart on your sleeve isn't a very good plan; you should wear it inside, where it functions best.
> — <cite>Margaret Thatcher</cite>