---
tags: [DailyNote, November, 2022-W46]
category:
status:
---

# Daily Note - Monday 7th November 2022

---
[[2022-11-06]]|[[2022-11-08]]

---

## Notes for the Day:
### Active Projects
#### Rookies
[[Moto the Bruiser]]
#### Website
#### Skull Arrowhead
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]
#### Humble Bundles

### Notes
#### Day Outline + Goals

#### Journal Entry
Blood Moon, MST:
**Eclipse Times (Mountain):**   
Partial Eclipse begins:  2:09 A.M.   
Full Eclipse begins:  3:16 A.M.   
Maximum Eclipse:  3:59 A.M.    
Full Eclipse ends:  4:41 A.M.  
Partial Eclipse ends:  5:49 A.M.  Note: Moon sets at 6:48 A.M. MST.

I found out that from 2:09am to 5:49am, and peaking at 3:59am, the morning of Nov. 8th (my birthday), there will be a blood moon that will put Utah into a total lunar eclipse. I am interested in the pathing of the moon and while trying to find that information stumbled upon this segment form a zodiac advise column:

	Someone is constantly in your mind nowadays, Scorpio. It could be your significant
	other, best friend, business partner, or even your arch-nemesis. No matter who it 
	is, this eclipse is encouraging you to evolve in your relationship with this 
	person. If the situation is less than ideal, you may be ready to part ways with 
	someone you share a toxic dynamic with. But, if things are going well, you may 
	feel ready to commit to this person. The effect of this eclipse not only brings 
	major relationship change but you may also find yourself having an all-new 
	perspective on it. You may also be thinking of what improvement you can bring to 
	yourself in order to harmonize with others. The answer to a healthier and mutually 
	beneficial relationship is within yourself.

The funny thing was that I was listening to a segment by Tim Pool and he brought up the fact that there is going to be an election day, and in my case birthday, blood moon.

[[Covenant 11-07-2022]]
## Backlog
[[D-Past Due & No Date]]

## Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-11-07)
GROUP BY header
```

## Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-11-07) and due < date(2022-11-14)
sort default(due, "") ASC
GROUP BY header
```

## Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20221107"

```
---
[[2022-11-07]] | [[2022-11]] | [[2022-W46]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-11-07 13:37
Note Modification Date: Monday 7th November 2022 13:37:00 

---
### Questions to Ponder
	Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:
	- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?
	- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?
	- I have worldly obligations here.  
		- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  
		- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?

--- 
> I gave my life to become the person I am right now. Was it worth it?
> — <cite>Richard Bach</cite>