---
tags: [DailyNote, October, 2022-W44]
category:
status:
---

## Daily Note - Thursday 27th October 2022

---
[[2022-10-26]]|[[2022-10-28]]

---

### Notes for the Day:
#### Active Projects
##### Rookies
[Moto the Bruiser](https://www.therookies.co/entries/19476)
[Contest Link](https://www.therookies.co/contests/groups/adobe-substance-3d-robot-challenge/entries?page=1)
##### Website
##### Skull Arrowhead
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]

#### Notes
Today is Michaella's Thursday Classes and I don't know whether I will be working for Gwenn or Coding Ninjas; As it turns out, it will be both!

#### Questions to Ponder
Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:
- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?
- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?
- I have worldly obligations here.  
	- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  
	- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?



### Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-10-27)
```

### Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-10-27) and due < date(2022-11-03)
sort default(due, "") ASC
```

### Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20221027"

```
---
[[2022-10-27]] | [[2022-10]] | [[2022-W44]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-10-25 12:09
Note Modification Date: Tuesday 25th October 2022 12:09:47 

--- 
> The greatest obstacle to being heroic is the doubt whether one may not be going to prove oneself a fool; the truest heroism is to resist the doubt; and the profoundest wisdom, to know when it ought to be resisted, and when it be obeyed.
> — <cite>Nathaniel Hawthorne</cite>