---
tags: [DailyNote, December, 2022-W50]
category:
status:
---

# Daily Note - Tuesday 6th December 2022

---
[[2022-12-05]]|[[2022-12-07]]

---

## Notes for the Day:
### Active Projects
#### Rookies
[[Moto the Bruiser]]
#### Website
#### Skull Arrowhead
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]
#### Humble Bundles

### Notes
#### Day Outline + Goals
Obsidian is getting and infinite canvas base feature that I am really excited about.

I need to go through and organize my projects and get a move on regarding the things I want to be working on. This is the list of things that need to be organized:
- [x] PunBall game development
- [x] Making Paxton's ring
- [x] Designing Pendants
- [x] Sculpting Pendants
- [x] Manufacturing Pendants
- [x] Working for Gwenn Wed. & Thurs
- [x] Wedding
- [x] Getting Airbrush Supplies
	- [x] Air brush cleaning pot/chamber
	- [x] Airbrush cleaning pipes
	- [x] Airbrush Paint Cleaner
	- [x] New Airbrush
	- [x] Double Airbrush hose connector and hose
- [x] Scripture Study and Research
	- [ ] Second Comforter
	- [ ] Knowledge and Salvation
	- [ ] Purpose of Elijah
	- [ ] How to study by the power of the Holy Ghost
	- [ ] Reading Goals
		- [ ] Come Let us Adore Him
		- [ ] A Man without Doubt
		- [ ] The New Covenant
		- [ ] The New Scriptures
		- [ ] The Second Comforter
		- [ ] The Triumph of Zion
- [x] Work and Coding
	- [ ] Finish Yellow Belt
	- [ ] Finish Orange Belt
	- [ ] Finish Purple Belt
		- [ ] Install the proper version of Unity at home
	- [ ] Finish my Website
	- [x] Figure out how to block Youtube with a password
- [ ] Write my Passwords into my book for an easy reference 
#### Journal Entry

## Backlog
[[D-Past Due & No Date]]

## Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-12-06)
GROUP BY header
```

## Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-12-06) and due < date(2022-12-13)
sort default(due, "") ASC
GROUP BY header
```

## Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20221206"

```
---
[[2022-12-06]] | [[2022-12]] | [[2022-W50]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-12-06 00:50
Note Modification Date: Tuesday 6th December 2022 00:50:36 

---
### Questions to Ponder
	Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:
	- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?
	- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?
	- I have worldly obligations here.  
		- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  
		- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?

--- 
> Technology presumes there's just one right way to do things and there never is.
> — <cite>Robert M. Pirsig</cite>