---
tags: [DailyNote, November, 2022-W45, Journal]
category:
status:
---

# Daily Note - Sunday 6th November 2022

---
[[2022-11-05]]|[[2022-11-07]]

---

## Notes for the Day:
### Active Projects
#### Rookies
[[Moto the Bruiser]]
#### Website
#### Skull Arrowhead
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]
#### Humble Bundles

### Notes
#### Day Outline + Goals
The main goal for the day is to clean the house so that it is not in severe disrepair.  Once that is done I need to spend sometime grading Code Ninjas and then work on jewelry design, probably [[Skull-Arrowhead]].  I would like to call Pax sometime today, but that might not happen as we have dinner at Gwenn's at 6pm (18:00).
#### Journal Entry
Michaella and I woke up at around 8:30 (9:30 if daylight savings didn't kick in today) but Michaella had nightmares all last night that may have been linked to the Tamiflu and wasn't feeling up to going to church.  I was going to go but she asked me to stay home so I did.  We didn't end up leaving the bed until 11 and I took puppy out, fed the babies, and then cooked some Annie's Macaroni and Cheese.  Michaella was stressed by the script revision and music writing so she went and did that and I did dishes, garbage, and laundry.  Tomorrow I will be doing vacuuming.

The Family Meeting started with Brandon talking about his mission and doing a birthday call to the family friend Bob.

Brandon talked about his mission companions and experience being out in the mission field. He had some good and some not so good companions. Learned how to live what he believed.  Learned devotion and how to commit to things. You learn by doing and by teaching, being immersed in the gospel.

Atonement is working if you notice a change in yourself. (That is gaining light and truth, )

(Get there hence boy, Brandon's highschool nickname was Satan because he played it)

Gwenn, dreamed a dream about Satan. In the dream Satan was a woman, she came a crossed as less threatening. (Mother of Harlets?) Sensed her intentions and didn't have scales.  She first wanted to get people to drink something, used different tactics for each. Everyone drunk the drink. The drink took away protection or put on a veil.  Gwenn and Nathan weren't as affected as the kids. Gwenn was more and more angry and did things to piss her off but it just made Gwenn look like the evil one.  She took the kids and separated them from the parents.  They left the room, Nathan was more calm/at peace. The kids visited but wouldn't stay.  G and N eventually got out and there was a bunch of lines and everyone was waiting to join a team.  They went to get equipment and everything was wrong and we're fake and insufficient to do the task at hand. 
There was a lot of excitement all around but G and N were worried that the kids were being tortured. Eventually everyone left and G and N hoped no one would return to this game.

Spirit needs to aid by expounding upon the things that you know. Being able to use descernment is conditional upon what you know and this the need to look into and find illumination. 

Favorite sins; talk highlighted God's stance on one of Gwenn's. After the talk Gwenn didn't feel the need to persist in it afterwards. Doesn't have the pole anymore. 

Rod: 
Michaella felt like Rod was causing Gwenn to be in a state of panic and Michaella wanted to cut out the root. Didn't understand the concept of family. Commitment, compromise and others. He didn't step up in many cases, made it hard for her to do so. Emotional abuse. Nathan was the perfect Dad figure, would anyone look bad compared to that? Ended up feeling gaslit. Concluded, it doesn't matter where they are but where are they facing?  That is what God cares about and that is the thing to respect. Class with motto everything is right, and it appeared wrong and an impossibility.  And yet her peers were progressing and she felt cheated. Watched them and eventually she figured out she meant everything you do is right when done with love. Rephrased as everything can be to our betterment if God is allowed to interview and consecrate it to our good. Brandon; impatient and strong willed. What did you learn? He learned what he didn't want to be and what to avoid.  Spencer; Hard to stand up to. Gwenn constantly went to be crying and Spencer can't count how often it happened. Gwenn; We didn't know how such character flaws could be manifested. We learned how to spot a "Rod, It's a Trap".  Thought, what was that about? Why did I get asked to go through that? Sometimes you understand the opposite of what would happen. She understood that the marriage would be good for the kids.  She went in saying that it doesn't matter what happens to me but it the kids will be blessed then it's worth it. A building burned down on the way to get sealed to Jessa, led to better future proofing for other temples.

Bart:
Gwenn; very different from Bart and she has been impressed by him. Talked to him and he feels like they just take care of each other's burdens like what happened with Nathan. I am very sorry about Rod. Brandon; he just said nope!!! Asked a bunch of questions and went on for 10+ minutes.   By the end, felt like he was told to calm down and trust your mother. Thankful that he was able to have a soft heart and he felt able to change on the mission. Michaella; God knew there was going to be a tough hurdle and the way it started would be conned into it.  When Rod helped us move in and Rod would ask Gwenn questions and Michaella felt that they were going to get married.  Only took that as God preparing me for something that would have pissed me off, now feels like it was planned for.  And that we would be alright. Bart and Eugene came over for dinner, and Michaella had the thought and impression that he would fall in love with her.  And it made me on edge because he was married. I am still watchful, I see a huge difference between he is going to marry you and he is going to Love you.  Loving is much more than marrying. That is a bid difference to Michaella. Katelynn; maybe Rod did have his prayers answered and he rejected it.

## Backlog
[[D-Past Due & No Date]]

## Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-11-06)
GROUP BY header
```

## Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-11-06) and due < date(2022-11-13)
sort default(due, "") ASC
GROUP BY header
```

## Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20221106"

```
---
[[2022-11-06]] | [[2022-11]] | [[2022-W45]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-11-06 00:23
Note Modification Date: Sunday 6th November 2022 00:23:04 

---
### Questions to Ponder
	Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:
	- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?
	- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?
	- I have worldly obligations here.  
		- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  
		- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?

--- 
> The key to transforming our hearts and minds is to have an understanding of how our thoughts and emotions work.
> — <cite>Dalai Lama</cite>