---
tags: [DailyNote, February, 2023-W09]
category:
status:
---

# Daily Note - Wednesday 22nd February 2023

---
[[2023-02-21]]|[[2023-02-23]]

---

## Notes for the Day:
### Goals
#### Pendants
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]

#### Game Dev
[[Imps and Robo Robbers]]
[[Punball-App-DesignDoc]]
[[D-Crystal Tower]]
[[D-Tic Stack Toe]]
### Active Projects
#### Work on Website
[[T_Finish GitPages Website]]

### Notes
#### Day Outline + Goals
Played Warframe for a little too long, but I did manage to get some things done in regards to my Company Logo.
#### Journal Entry

## Backlog
[[D-Past Due & No Date]]

## Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2023-02-22)
GROUP BY header
```

## Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2023-02-22) and due < date(2023-03-01)
sort default(due, "") ASC
GROUP BY header
```

## Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20230222"

```
---
[[2023-02-22]] | [[2023-02]] | [[2023-W09]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2023-02-22 15:00
Note Modification Date: Wednesday 22nd February 2023 15:00:13 

---
### Questions to Ponder
	Physical improvement requires that you do.
	Spiritual improvement requires that you be.

	Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:
	- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?
	- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?
	- I have worldly obligations here.  
		- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  
		- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?

--- 
> A little more persistence, a little more effort, and what seemed hopeless failure may turn to glorious success.
> — <cite>Elbert Hubbard</cite>