---
tags: [DailyNote, January, 2023-W03]
category:
status:
---

# Daily Note - Saturday 14th January 2023

---
[[2023-01-13]]|[[2023-01-15]]

---

## Notes for the Day:
### Active Projects
#### Rookies
[[Moto the Bruiser]]
#### Website
#### Skull Arrowhead
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]
#### Humble Bundles

### Notes
#### Day Outline + Goals
This is late in the day but it would be nice to just create a little bit of a list so I can get my life started back into an organized state. 
- Cars
	- I need to fix Michaella's Engine
	- I need to check the engine code on my car to see if it is the same or different
- I need to finish outlining my new years resolutions and my weekly schedule 
- I want to make a course for my own progression in
	- game design
	- jewelry
	- web dev
	- 3D asset creation
	- animation
- I need to get the ingredients for the meal I am making tomorrow
- I need to work on Paxton's ring
- I want to finish all the code ninjas belts
- SLA 3D Prints
	- funnel for filtering resin
	- terrain for d&d/tabletop gaming
- Resin Prints
	- More table top minis for wargaming and d&d and painting
- House:
	- Assemble and test the sprayer
	- Soak the carpet
	- Dry the carpet
	- paint the wood and concrete 
	- lay down new pad
	- layout Geordie's new bathroom
	- design the closet shelves
		- my room
		- bedroom
		- michaella's office
	- weather strip the doors
		- front
		- cat
	- dust the blinds
	- vacuum house
	- mop
	- clean the main floor bathroom
	- clean up holiday presents
	- finish dishes
	- finish laundry
#### Journal Entry

## Backlog
[[D-Past Due & No Date]]

## Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2023-01-14)
GROUP BY header
```

## Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2023-01-14) and due < date(2023-01-21)
sort default(due, "") ASC
GROUP BY header
```

## Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20230114"

```
---
[[2023-01-14]] | [[2023-01]] | [[2023-W03]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2023-01-14 01:01
Note Modification Date: Saturday 14th January 2023 01:01:35 

---
### Questions to Ponder
	Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:
	- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?
	- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?
	- I have worldly obligations here.  
		- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  
		- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?

--- 
> Be great in act, as you have been in thought.
> — <cite>William Shakespeare</cite>