---
tags: [DailyNote, February, 2023-W08]
category:
status:
---

# Daily Note - Thursday 16th February 2023

---
[[2023-02-15]]|[[2023-02-17]]

---

## Notes for the Day:
### Goals
#### Pendants
[[Skull-Arrowhead]]

#### Game Dev
[[Imps and Robo Robbers]]
[[Punball-App-DesignDoc]]
[[D-Crystal Tower]]
### Active Projects
#### Work on Website
[[T_Finish GitPages Website]]

### Notes
#### Day Outline + Goals

#### Journal Entry
Thoughts on Darkness
Veil of darkness over the whole of the earth
We are putting a puzzle together in the dark, every human being on planet earth. But, the room is full of puzzles have all been mixed together and we can't even see to know which piece is belongs to which puzzle.  There have been many great individuals and also groups of men and women who have put great effort into categorizing a large portion of the pieces and assembling/forcing them together into a frame or shape. We know about their work as they all ultimately end up broadcasting loudly and proudly their achievement. They convert many to their truth by offering others the chance to feel their work, and indeed many feel smooth. More perplexing still, there are some groups that have made massive works that seem to use nearly all the pieces around and which still feel mostly smooth upon physical inspection.  Many are overwhelmed by the piece of mind that such a display brings, and lay down the challenge of finding new connections themselves and offload all the puzzle construction responsibilities to the groups behind such works.  However, every once in a while, a light shines forth in the darkness, sometimes small and dim, sometimes larger and bright which to everyone with eyes to see, reveals something truly disturbing.  While the puzzles all largely FEEL good and smooth, their colors always wrong at least in one section, but more often all over the finished puzzle.  These moments beg the question, why do the puzzles have colors at all?  Many claim it is because it is pleasing to a higher power, but it is not for us to know now, only after we leave this place will we know.  To such, darkness is a virtue. The more careful may conclude that it is possible that the colors mean something, something profound even, but are content to just ponder such questions.  Mad men and women pop up from time to time in the darkness, however, claiming the impossible.  They claim they have spoken with those who are not of this place and who say that not only ought the colors match, the Mad ones claim, but the pictures they make are supposed to govern the daily walk of man.  The puzzles are a part of a single work they say, but is up to every individual to know what that work is and participate in the advancement of it.  In every case, these mad individuals stand alone. No group vouches for their work and pieces they advocate putting together tears apart the tapestries of the large institutions of science and religion.  They have no bonifies that we should love them.  Never the less, those who never gave up on putting the puzzle together themselves, feel their hearts resonate with the teachings of the mad ones.  Bits of their work harmonizes with what is said and other ek are easily rearranged to fit the pattern.  They, however, are still in the dark, they cannot see the colors clearly, not in full. They feel the smoothness of the pieces they were able to feel well enough to put together and are left to choose. Do they trust the vision of the Mad ones, give up all the comforts of the confidence espoused all around them, become unconfident, meek, humble, and seek illumination from those not of the place of darkness by conforming their behavior to the sayings of the Mad ones acting no hypocrisy, or do they doubt and stay in the dark?  Many who wrestle with this extremity will see light from time to time

## Backlog
[[D-Past Due & No Date]]

## Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2023-02-16)
GROUP BY header
```

## Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2023-02-16) and due < date(2023-02-23)
sort default(due, "") ASC
GROUP BY header
```

## Schedule
```dataview
task
from "Day Planners/Day Planner-20230216"

```
---
[[2023-02-16]] | [[2023-02]] | [[2023-W08]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2023-02-16 13:21
Note Modification Date: Thursday 16th February 2023 13:21:39 

---
### Questions to Ponder
	Physical improvement requires that you do.
	Spiritual improvement requires that you be.

	Service done in love of God and our fellow man is one of the highest forms of worship and the medium through which God has ordained some lessons must be learned.  In light of this realization, ponder the following:
	- In my obligations today, how may I increase my love for my fellow men and how may I better minister and serve them?
	- Have I consumed or am I consuming things upon my own lust as consequence of my pride?
	- I have worldly obligations here.  
		- Am I at my computer, phone, book, or chore to improve, perform, and learn efficiently so as to meet and exceed those obligations?  
		- If the weakness of my flesh requires I take a break, am I doing so in a wise way?

--- 
> A passion for politics stems usually from an insatiable need, either for power, or for friendship and adulation, or a combination of both.
> — <cite>Fawn M. Brodie</cite>