---
tags: [DailyNote, October, 2022-W40, Journal]
category:
status:
---

## Daily Note - Sunday 2nd October 2022

---
[[2022-10-02]] | [[2022-10]] | [[2022-W40]]

---

### Notes for the Day:
Today is the second session of General Conference.

#### Yesterday's Journal
Yesterday was an adventure, but we didn't start it very quickly. In fact we spent the whole of the first session cuddling in bed as Geordie and Worf had pinned us down.  Once Geordie moved though we were able to get moving and we started the day by picking up Michaella's car from the dealership and then came over to Gwenn's. This was between sessions so I went to go diagnose my car at O'rielly's as it is still experiencing issues. I was given some advise for how to check the spark plug cables. If the boot is not plugged in and the engine is turned over, a good spark wire will still spark and it should be audible. The cable to Cylinder 1, which is the chamber that is having the issue, however, showed no such signs of life. I bought the mid grade spark wires, got back to Gwenn's and looked in the box to discover they were used somehow. I quickly returned the cables and got the premium as I didn't want to have that happen again and came back.
I then went over to the park at the pond to listen with the rest of the fam, Michaella stayed at the house to cook and chill as she has been needing to recharge socially. At the park I drew for Inktober and then after the afternoon session, we played botchy balls for a minute and got sick on a marry go round.
I was called over to Barts shortly after to go and check on the shelves that he had finished to go with the cabinetry that we had been working on polishing up as they were originally made by his son but left as the project was on going just before flat screen tv's came out. So I went over and gave my opinion that I didn't feel the need to round the front face of the shelves and liked them as they were. Bart will not be around Monday or Tuesday but I will be able to get in to stain the shelves and the back of the large cabinet to disguise where the board was.
I was then able to try and fix my car but the cables were theoretically only accessible underneath the car. It took a bit to git it jacked up and it rolled off the Jack twice before I was able to see if it was actually reachable from underneath. I wasn't able to see the connection points so I found a video and it is possible to reach it from the top just with some parts removed. So Monday I will try that since I should probably not do that on a Sunday. 
So then it was time for dinner and the final session of conference and so I drew again to finish the sketch I actually liked for the prompt and then we watched "The Legend of Tarzan" and now I am once again up late so I need to go to bed. Michaella sleeps better when I join her in bed before she falls asleep so I have been trying to do better on that but the issue lately has been that this is the only time to actually get things done on the computer which is where I need to by for Job Hunting, Portfolio work, and Life Organization.
I will find a way to strike a better balance, I just might need a little time.

### Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-10-02)
```

### Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-10-02) and due < date(2022-10-09)
sort default(due, "") ASC
```

---
[[2022-10-01]]|[[2022-10-03]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-10-02 00:05
Note Modification Date: Sunday 2nd October 2022 00:05:14 

--- 
> No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.
> — <cite>Eleanor Roosevelt</cite>