---
tags: [DailyNote, October, 2022-W41, Journal]
category:
status:
---

## Daily Note - Monday 3rd October 2022

---
[[2022-10-03]] | [[2022-10]] | [[2022-W41]]

---

### Notes for the Day:
I woke up late today so I didn't start moving until around 10 or so.  Michaella and I took Worf out and then came back and read scriptures. Our current plan has been to read from the Book of Mormon and then alternate between come follow me and discussing/reading topics that I have issues with. This morning though was a discussion of the conference talks which I can't say I was surprised by.  

I have been more silent lately on my view points regardless of how disturbed or troubled a topic has truly made me. I want to make sure that I lay this all out right and is not just a contentious battle ground as the spirit will not be with my nor my wife if that spirit has place in the discussion. This morning I was reluctant to really engage as I was able to tell that Michaella was on edge and at least flirting with contention which I totally understand but also can't abide for what has to be discussed us. 

I don't know how to navigate this dynamic and pray for some level of resolution so as to begin addressing some things. But I do have time to think and ponder on how to proceed as I really don't know what I want to say yet.  I know where thing will have to go but I don't know how to get there as the conclusions have not been fully attained to by me.  My goal therefore is to hunt down the logical steps that prove the truth of the thing that has been presented to me and to be as clear as possible when it comes time to lay it all out.   

Regardless, after the morning routine, I took Michaella to class and then took Worf and I to Gwenn's to continue working on my car. I got the spark plug wires replaced and then tried starting the car and it was still experiencing issues it had before. I then needed to run and pick Michaella up and take her home and then come back to take my car into O'rielly's to read the engine codes again. They were the same so I decided it would be best if I just took it in because at max it is like half of a weeks worth of work and I am loosing that money in trying to fix it myself. So I had Gwenn help me with that and then started to work on organizing the tools in Gwenn's garage for work but it was fast approaching the time I set to leave so I left shortly after and came home. 

I took out the trash and did the dishes while Michaella made dinner and talked with Michaella regarding her concerns with teaching and with college. I then went up and chilled on the computer and worked on the Inktober prompt and Journaling here.

### Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-10-03)
```

### Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-10-03) and due < date(2022-10-10)
```

---
[[2022-10-02]]|[[2022-10-04]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-10-03 21:20
Note Modification Date: Monday 3rd October 2022 21:20:28 

--- 
> Technology is destructive only in the hands of people who do not realize that they are one and the same process as the universe.
> — <cite>Alan Watts</cite>