---
tags: [DailyNote, October, 2022-W42, Journal]
category:
status:
---

## Daily Note - Sunday 16th October 2022

---
[[2022-10-16]] | [[2022-10]] | [[2022-W42]]

---

### Notes for the Day:
I finally found a syncing software solution to Obsidian!  It's called Syncthing and I am very excited as notes I put on my phone can be updated simultaneously to my desktop and laptop all for free. :)

Today is the second to last day being spent at Gwenn's for watching the kids.  Michaella had fun making waffle varieties like taco, egg breakfast, Oreo, blueberry lemon, and strawberry and cream cheese.  I have enjoyed the ones I tried and will try the taco and egg breakfast later.

We the started listening to a conference talk.  I was asked to pick and the best I could find was one called "This Day" about the book of Mormon, but it still focused and praised man more than God.  This coming week I need to speak with Michaella about Denver's talks as that is what God has asked how I lay it out to her. Spencer also picked one; Tom Holland's called "Lifted Up Upon the Cross". Quick note regarding this talk is that Holland claed that the LDS church is pre corruption of Nicene. But while that is true for the Book of Mormon the church has its own corruptions and it is a severely misleading and pride inducing statement that I take issue with. Michaella also choose a talk; "The Eternal Principle of Love".

### Due Today:
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due = date(2022-10-16)
```

### Weekly Task Inbox
```dataview
task
from "Projects/Tasks"
where due > date(2022-10-16) and due < date(2022-10-23)
sort default(due, "") ASC
```

---
[[2022-10-15]]|[[2022-10-17]]

---

Note Creation Date: 2022-10-16 11:54
Note Modification Date: Sunday 16th October 2022 11:54:22 

--- 
> Once we accept our limits, we go beyond them.
> — <cite>Albert Einstein</cite>