Thoughts on Darkness
Veil of darkness over the whole of the earth
We are putting a puzzle together in the dark, every human being on planet earth. But, the room is full of puzzles have all been mixed together and we can't even see to know which piece is belongs to which puzzle.  There have been many great individuals and also groups of men and women who have put great effort into categorizing a large portion of the pieces and assembling/forcing them together into a frame or shape. We know about their work as they all ultimately end up broadcasting loudly and proudly their achievement. They convert many to their truth by offering others the chance to feel their work, and indeed many feel smooth. More perplexing still, there are some groups that have made massive works that seem to use nearly all the pieces around and which still feel mostly smooth upon physical inspection.  Many are overwhelmed by the piece of mind that such a display brings, and lay down the challenge of finding new connections themselves and offload all the puzzle construction responsibilities to the groups behind such works.  However, every once in a while, a light shines forth in the darkness, sometimes small and dim, sometimes larger and bright which to everyone with eyes to see, reveals something truly disturbing.  While the puzzles all largely FEEL good and smooth, their colors always wrong at least in one section, but more often all over the finished puzzle.  These moments beg the question, why do the puzzles have colors at all?  Many claim it is because it is pleasing to a higher power, but it is not for us to know now, only after we leave this place will we know.  To such, darkness is a virtue. The more careful may conclude that it is possible that the colors mean something, something profound even, but are content to just ponder such questions.  Mad men and women pop up from time to time in the darkness, however, claiming the impossible.  They claim they have spoken with those who are not of this place and who say that not only ought the colors match, the Mad ones claim, but the pictures they make are supposed to govern the daily walk of man.  The puzzles are a part of a single work they say, but is up to every individual to know what that work is and participate in the advancement of it.  In every case, these mad individuals stand alone. No group vouches for their work and pieces they advocate putting together tears apart the tapestries of the large institutions of science and religion.  They have no bonifies that we should love them.  Never the less, those who never gave up on putting the puzzle together themselves, feel their hearts resonate with the teachings of the mad ones.  Bits of their work harmonizes with what is said and other smaller elements are easily rearranged to fit the pattern.  They, however, are still in the dark, they cannot see the colors clearly, not in full. They feel the smoothness of the pieces they were able to feel well enough to put together and the little light they have confirms the colors match at least in this one small section. They are left, now, to choose. Do they trust the vision of the Mad ones, give up all the comforts of the confidence espoused all around them, become a Mad one themselves or do they stay still in apostasy or darkness.  If the first, they do no have the Mad one's confidence, in fact they are unconfident, meek, lowly, humble, and called vile names, yet they seek illumination from those not of the place of darkness by conforming their behavior to the sayings of the Mad ones acting no hypocrisy, or do they doubt. In the case of the second, they just stay as they were, unlighted, unchanged.  Many who wrestle with this extremity will see light from time to time, but all are given this gift to see the same.  The challenge is comprehending the light enough to embrace it and to you yourself become one who is illuminated and knows the correct purpose behind all things and who lives according to that law. To be that is an on off switch, until you are a Mad one, you are in darkness and that is where you will stay.