[[Phaeros]]

Vampiric Suns of Dawn
Neil woke up in a cold sweat. It wasn't morning, not yet anyway. The cool cloth of the blankets chilled his fingers as he pulled open the sheets from a corner that hadn't been warmed by his body heat during the night. He had to stand up, had to move, but... why? He looked around his room apprehensive, straining to see anything out of the ordinary, anything that might indicate there was trouble. His vision focused first upon the door. But no it was shut tight and his straining ears didn't catch even the smallest hint of a sound from that part of the room nor the house beyond. His eyes carefully traced a line from the door to the window scanning quickly but thoroughly as he went.  By the subtle light of pre-dawn his eyes picked their way from the door a crossed his work desk, the whole of his bed, closed closet drapes, and the rest of the open room before alighting upon the window. Nothing. Absolutely nothing was out of the ordinary or suspicious in any way.  Everything was exactly as he had left the night before and the window was still shuttered and lightly dusted from lack of use. A light breeze was almost always able to slip through the wooden shutters but it was so faint last night and this morning that it could hardly be felt. But somehow, this all just served to increase the dread in Neil's heart. 
Unsure as to exactly why, Neil quietly hurried to the window and un-shuttered it. Feeling like the act of making noise of any kind was to be avoided under pain of death he silently opened the window and peered out upon the landscape slowly being painted by what ought to be the comforting light of dawn.  Again, there was no real sign of anything amiss or danger anywhere.  He saw only the familiar forms of the small town he lived in surrounding him on all sides. He owned only a single floor building where the rest of the town was mostly 2 stories.  His home was old, one of the first that had been built in this little town and one that suffered from a building style that was inexperienced in the methodologies that let men build upon sandy foundations.  The mere single story was a testament to that much. However, that meant that it was cheap and available when Neil first arrived and the simplicity attracted him more than even he expected, even though he already knew himself to be a minimalist at heart.  Speaking practically for the moment, however, all this simply meant was that his view of his surroundings were extremely limited.  He could mostly see at best the 4 or 5 houses just a crossed the street from him.  And from what was visible everything, again, appeared perfectly normal.
Any other day, Neil would have felt chagrined at himself, behaving the way he had this morning. In fact, at this moment he could feel himself trying to, but the feeling didn't stick. It couldn't. Every fiber in his being told Neil things were anything but normal. And as if in confirmation to this almost overwhelming paranoia, a light suddenly sparked to life in the upper window of the house just a crossed from Neil.
The unexpected change nearly caused Neil to yell. As it was he started violently and only after regaining motor control, violently grabbed hold of the shutters, and pulled them quickly closed.  Remembering only at the last second to leave them open just far enough such that the sudden light was visible through a tiny crack in center of the double frames.  Breathless, he looked out a crossed the road at the anomaly.  His frayed nerves serving to give him the absolute focus of a prey animal on look out for a wild beast.
There were shadows dancing in the upper room but it was difficult to pin point the source.

Most of the town wakes up just after the light came on in the window.  The elderly are hyper focused on how light life they have left and desperately attack anyone younger and weaker than themselves.

Bloodbath, cut to present day