Page 1 of 19  
Repentance  
© Denver Snuffer 9-29-13  
Lecture 3 Logan, Utah  
[Link](https://denversnuffer.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/03-Logan-Transcript-Repentance.pdf)

## Talk 3
40 years ago yesterday would have been a Friday. That was the day that my friend Ron Mahle asked me  
to baptize him. The next day was a Saturday, 40 years ago. Today it's a Sunday. I was in the Air Force at  
the time. I had been in one squadron, and then was reassigned to a different squadron. While I was in the  
first one, I had a number of buddies I had associated with. These were friends, compadres, one of whom  
was a fellow named Jimmy Givens. I think Jimmy was from Chicago.  
Jimmy was a black airmen, and I was a white airman. As it turns out I still am (white that is, but not an  
airman). Jimmy and I hung out together a great deal, but then I lost contact with him for a period of  
months. He and I had been Baptist before my conversion. We had even attended a local Portsmouth, New  
Hampshire Baptist church together on occasion.  
As part of our earlier routine, he and I would go over to the base bowling alley. Because they only sold  
beer in pitchers, we always bought a pitcher of beer and a pizza to share. That was our thing when we  
were hungry.  
I hadn't seen him for a number of months, and then ran into him. And he said, “Hey let's go over to the  
bowling alley.” And I responded, “Okay, sure.” But when we got there I hadn't been thinking that the  
normal ritual was a pitcher of beer and a pizza. So as it came time to order we ordered the pizza just as we  
always did. Then to my surprise Jimmy ordered a Pepsi. And I thought, ‘well that's good; that relieves me  
of the responsibility to deal with the pitcher of beer.’ So I ordered a Pepsi also. Then Jimmy said, “I don't  
drink alcohol anymore.” And I said, “Oh damn that's funny, I don't either anymore.” I said, “For me it's a  
religious thing.” He said, “No kidding! For me it's a religious thing too.” And I said, “That's great! What's  
the religion?” He replied, “I'm a Muslim.”I said, “Holy crap, I'm a Mormon!”He said, “You are a blue-  
eyed devil!” And I said, “No kidding! You were not valiant in the preexistence and you can't hold  
priesthood!” Both of us had a good laugh about those quirks in these new faiths we had adopted. So there  
we were, buddies still, in spite of the gulf of religion which then separated us, and it just didn't matter. I  
don't think he's Jimmy anymore. He's probably Aziz Mohammed something or other. But Jimmy and I  
remain buddies despite the newly adopted enormous religion gulf that intervened to separate us at that  
point.  
When I became a Latter-day Saint, one of the things that typified, in those days, the Latter-day Saint, was  
the libraries every member had in their homes. In Exeter, which is another town in the Portsmouth, New  
Hampshire ward boundaries, there was an elderly woman named Sister Long. She ran, what was back  
then (we don't have them anymore), The Seventies Bookstore. These were a chain of bookstores where  
you could purchase LDS materials. Sister Long was the proprietor of the bookstore, which consisted of  
her covered back porch where her inventory of LDS books was displayed. Since she was an avid reader,  
Sister Long read her inventory. So whenever you bought from her, you were actually buying a book she  
had already read, but fortunately had not marked up.  
It was my understanding back then that if you were going to be a Latter-day Saint, you needed to acquaint  
yourself with all kinds of doctrinal and historical information about the faith. As a consequence of that, I  
began by reading everything I could get my hands on. In those days LeGrand Richards was still alive. The  
missionary discussions were largely based upon A Marvelous Work and a Wonder. LeGrand Richards had  
been the Presiding Bishop of the Church, and was then called into the Quorum of the Twelve. His book, A  
Marvelous Work and a Wonder was one of the first things I read to better acquaint myself with the  
doctrine the missionaries had been teaching. I also read all of those early biographies about Wilford

Page 2 of 19  
Woodruff, Heber C. Kimball, and John Taylor. The Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, which I  
bought from Sister Long, got entirely used up. I recently had to buy a new one because the one I bought  
from Sister Long just fell apart. Now I still have it, but if you aren't careful when you open it, it just falls  
to pieces in your hands. Mormons were by definition in those days, studious, careful, well read, well  
considered, doctrinally prepared folks who would defend the faith. Therefore, if you were going to run  
with them, you needed to have a religious education of your own. As a consequence of that, I began at  
that early stage to acquire a library, because you were not a legitimate believing Latter-day Saint without  
one back then.