# Discourse, between circa 26 June and circa 2 July 1839, as Reported by Willard Richards


## Document Transcript
Other important items of doctrines from Joseph given in Commerce Illinois
 
## On the Doctrines of 
### Faith
Faith comes by hearing the word of God through the testimony of the servants of God, that Testimony is always attended by the Spirit of prophecy & Revelation.
Repentance2
Repentance is a thing that cannot be trifled with every day. Daily transgression & daily repentance is not that which is pleasing in the sight of God—— [p. 15]
### Baptism
Is a holy ordinance preparatory to the reception of the Holy Ghost. It is the channel & Key by which the Holy Ghost will be administer[e]d
The gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands cannot be recived through the medium of any other principle, than the prin[ci]ple of Righteousness, for if the proposals are not complied with. it is of no use but withdraws.
### Tongues.
were given for the purpose of preaching among those whose language is not understood as on the day of Pentecost &c, & it is not necessary for tongues to be taught to the church particularly, for any man that has the Holy Ghost, can speak of the things of God in his own tongue, as well as to speak in another, for faith comes not by signs but by hearing the word of God, [p. 16]
The4 doctrine of the Resurrection5 of the Dead & Eternal Judgment are necssary to preach among the first principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ.—
 
### The Doctrine of Election
St Paul exhorts us to make our calling & Election shure. This is that sealing power spoken of by Paul in other places (See Eph I.13.14. In whom ye also trusted, that after ye heard the word of truth; the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after that ye believed. ye were sealed with that Holy Spirit of promise. Which is the earnest of our inheritance, until the redemption of the purchased possession unto the praise of his glory.) That we may be sealed up unto the day of redemption, this principle ought, (in its proper place) to be taught, for God hath not revealed any thing to Joseph, but what he will make known unto the Twelve & even the least Saint may know all things as fast as he is able to.— [p. 17] bear them. for the day must come when no man need say to his neighbor know ye the Lord for all shall know him (who Remain) from the least to the greatest, How is this to be done? It is to be done by this sealing power & the other comforter spoken of which will be manifest by Revelation.
There is two Comforters spoken of [one] is the Holy Ghost the same as given on the day of pentecost and that all saints receive often after faith, Repentance & Baptism. This first comforter or Holy Ghost has no other effect than pure inteligence, It is more powerful in expanding the mind enlightening the Understanding & storeing the intellect with present Knowledge of a man who is of the literal seed of Abraham than one that is a gentile though it may not have half as much visible effect upon the body for as the Holy ghost falls upon one of the Literal Seed of Abraham it is calm & serene & his whole soul & body are only exercised by the pure spirit of Inteligence; while the [p. 18] effect <​of the Holy Ghost​> upon a gentile is to purge out the old blood & make him actually of the seed of Abraham. That man that has none of the blood of Abraham (naturally) must have a new creation by the Holy Ghost, in such a case there may be more of a powerful effect upon the body & visible to the eye than upon an Israelite, while the Israelite at first might be far before the Gentile in pure Inteligence
The other Comforter6 spoken of is a subject of great interest & perhaps understood by few of this generation, After a person hath faith in Christ, repents of his sins, & is Baptized for the remission of his sins & receives the Holy Ghost (by the laying on of hands) which is the first Comforter. then let him continue to humble himself before God, hungering & thirsting after Righteousness. & living by every word of God & the Lord will soon say unto him Son thou shalt be exalted, &c When the Lord has thorougly proved him & finds that the man is determined to serve him at all hazard. then the man will find his calling & Election made sure [p. 19] then it will be his privilige to receive the other Comforter which the Lord hath promised the saints as is recorded in the testimony of St John in the XIV ch from the 12th to the 27 verses Note the 16.17.18.21.23. verses. (16. vs) & I will pray the father & he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you forever; (17) Even the Spirit of Truth; whom the world cannot receive because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him; but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you & shall be with <​in​> you, (18) I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you (21) He that hath my commandments & keepeth them, he it is that loveth me, & he that loveth me shall be loved of my father. & I will love him & will manifest myself to him (23) If a man love me he will keep my words, & my Father will love him, & we will come unto him, & make our abode with him.
Now what is this other Comforter? It is no more or less than the Lord Jesus Christ7 himself & this is the sum & substance of the whole matter, that when any man [p. 20] obtains this last Comforter he will have the personage of Jesus Christ to attend him or appear unto him from time to time. & even he will manifest the Father unto him & they will take up their abode with him, & the visions of the heavens will be opened unto him & the Lord will teach him face to face & he may have a perfect knowledge of the mysteries of the kingdom of God. & this is the state & place the Ancient Saints arrived at when they had such glorious vision Isaiah, Ezekiel, John upon the Isle of patmos, St Paul in the third heavens, & all the saints who held communion with the general Assembly & church of the First Born &c.
The Spirit of Revelation8 is in connection with these blessings. A person may profit by noticing the first intimation of the Spirit of Revelation for instance when you feel pure Inteligence flowing unto you it may give you sudden strokes of ideas that by noticeting it you may find it fulfilled the same day or soon. (I,E,) those things that were presented unto your minds by the Spirit of God will come to pass [p. 21] and thus by learning the Spirit of God. & understanding it you may grow into the principle of Revelation. until you become perfect in Christ Jesus.
 
### An Evangelist
Is a patriarch even the oldest man of the Blood of Joseph or of the seed of Abraham, whereever the Church of Christ is established in the earth, there should be a patriarch for the benefit of the posterity of the Saints as it was with Jacob. in giving his patriarchal blessing unto his Sons &c.— [p. 22]

## Historical Information
In summer 1839, likely in late June or early July, JS gave a discourse at Commerce, Illinois, regarding various principles of the gospel, including faith, baptism, and the doctrine of election. This discourse was one of several JS addressed to members of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles and the Quorums of the Seventy as they were preparing to proselytize in Europe.
JS began by addressing the principles of faith, repentance, baptism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost. Next, he discussed the gift of speaking in tongues, the resurrection, and eternal judgment. JS then explicated Peter’s instruction on making one’s “calling and election sure.” JS connected this doctrine with Paul’s discussion of the sealing power of the “holy Spirit of promise” and Jesus’s teaching about “another Comforter,”1 explaining that the “first Comforter” is the Holy Ghost, received after baptism, whereas the “other Comforter” is Jesus Christ, received after one’s calling and election is made sure.2 A revelation JS dictated in 1832 identified the other Comforter as the “holy spirit of promise” and connected this Comforter with the promise of salvation and eternal life.3 However, the revelation did not indicate the other Comforter was Jesus Christ; JS clarified the doctrine in this 1839 discourse. As a final topic, JS discussed the office of patriarch, which he equated with the New Testament role of evangelist.
Apostle Wilford Woodruff took notes during the discourse and copied them into his “Book of Revelations,” a notebook he began keeping in 1839 to record JS revelations and discourses. Woodruff brought his notebook on his mission to England, where fellow missionary Willard Richards copied the discourse notes into his “Pocket Companion.”4 In 1845 Thomas Bullock copied the discourse into the addenda of JS’s multivolume manuscript history.
JS may have given the discourse as early as 26 June, during meetings the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles held from 25 to 27 June. JS was absent from Commerce the first day of meetings but returned the following day.5 Woodruff’s journal describes the 26 June meeting as including “interesting remarks” on Ephesians chapter 1 and John chapter 14, particularly on “the other Comforter”—topics addressed in the discourse featured here.6 It is also possible that the council discussed these topics without JS on 26 June and that he was asked to expand on the subject on 27 June or in meetings with the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles during the next few days. JS presided at the meeting held on 27 June and gave at least one discourse that day.7 That was the date Bullock assigned the discourse when he copied it into the manuscript history. However, in Woodruff’s notebook this discourse is preceded by accounts of JS discourses from 27 June and 2 July.8 According to JS’s journal, 2 July is the last date that JS met with the apostles before their scheduled departure for Europe in early July. Nevertheless, since the apostles did not begin departing until August, it is possible that JS delivered the discourse later in July or early in August, before Woodruff left for his mission on 8 August.9