# Passover

The title may mislead so I will update that later.

I was listening to Denver's podcast, episode 170: Good Cheer part 3.  [link](https://denversnuffer.com/2022/10/170-good-cheer-part-3/#more-5564)

The main section that struck me is listed below and was speaking of the covenant God extended to anyone who would abide by the covenant given in [2017](http://denversnuffer.net/resources/Answer-Covenant-1.pdf). I was impressed by the spirit that it was because of my willingness at the time to accept that covenant that I was given Michaella as my wife for a blessing unto me to help me progress and increase in my understanding of my own weakness and carnal nature and pride. But also to provide me a situation where I could learn and come to know more light and truth as a consequence of a patient and firm wife.  As well as add to my faith by laying out Denver's words to her which I have so much yet to do in regards to.

This struck deep within me because I have been pondering in my heart whether or not I was being asked to layout Denver's words and the words of the scriptures to Michealla as a consequence of her worthiness before God or mine. God had previously made it known to me in my rebuke that he has in His heart to attempt to preserve Michaella, but that somehow made me wonder if I was worth saving as well.

I was deeply moved and humbled by the impression I received today especially as it comes right before a blood moon over the American continent that seems to indicate the times of the gentiles is nearing completion. The impression seemed to indicate that despite my deep flaws, I have managed to at least lay hold upon the first part of God's promise to His covenant people that:

	The first are those who made and keep the covenant the Lord offered in 2017. It 
	changed all those who accepted it into covenant Israel. They have the right to 
	inherit this land and will be preserved. As stated in His “Answer to Prayer for 
	Covenant”: _And the angels sent to harvest the world will gather the wicked into 
	bundles to be burned, but will pass over you as my peculiar treasure_ (T&C 
	158:18). 

I may not have had this promised me by an angel nor received of yet an association with Christ or the Father, but it feels as though I have been passed over by the angel of destruction and allowed to possibly progress to that small second group of believers:

	The second are those who will become part of the Holy Order and receive and 
	practice the religion of the Fathers. God alone will decide how many and who will 
	be invited into that order. We have no control over it. We have no right to decide 
	who is worthy or unworthy to receive it. It is entirely the Lord’s choice because 
	we are rarely able to determine other people’s hearts. The Lord told Joseph Smith 
	bluntly that he was unable to tell the righteous from the wicked. We are in no 
	better position than was Joseph. Therefore, we should leave it with the Lord to 
	determine whether or not to invite men and women and, if so, who and how many. The 
	Holy Order is as much—or more—a burden as a blessing. 

I do not have such pride as to claim to be apart of that group, but I am overwhelmed at God's mercy and patience to grant to me safe harbor.  I don't feel like I honored the covenant well enough to even be granted this, but my heart still sings a resounding "Yay, I still believe and desire to up hold the Lord's covenant!" and maybe that is enough for now.

I may not have been able to plan for a super fun birthday this year, and the election ends up being more of a curse, but I could not be happier or more grateful this day (Which was the 7th and ended up being the 8th by the time I finished typing this).  I could not have asked nor received a greater gift for my birthday this year.  Praise be to the Father and the Son upon whom all righteousness and glory dwell! hallowed by thy name forever! Amen. Thank you for blessing this people with your covenant and thank you for the birthday present.

## Reference:

The Lord’s “Answer to the Prayer for Covenant” accepted a body of believing Gentiles as His people of Israel. God’s promises and prophecies about Israel in the last days began to be fulfilled in 2017 when the covenant He offered was accepted. The Lord said to those people: 

_I will number you among the remnant of Jacob, no longer outcasts, and you will inherit the promises of Israel. You shall be my people and_ **_I_** _will be your God, and the sword will not devour you. And [to] those who will receive [more will] be given, until they know the mysteries of God in full. …I have redeemed you from being orphaned and taken you that you are no longer a widowed people._ (T&C 157:50, emphasis added)

The Gentiles who accepted the Lord’s Covenant have been promised that they:

_…are now numbered with my people who are of the house of Israel…_ 

God’s Answer goes on to assure covenant Israel:

_And I, the Lord your God, will be with you and will never forsake you, and I will lead you in the path which will bring peace to you in the troubling season now fast approaching._

_I will raise you up and protect you, abide with you, and gather you in due time, and this shall be a land of promise to you as your inheritance from me._

_The earth will yield its increase, and you will flourish upon the mountains and upon the hills, and the wicked will not come against you because the fear of the Lord will be with you._

_I will visit my house, which the remnant of my people shall build, and I will dwell therein, to be among you, and no one will need…say, Know ye the Lord, for you [shall_ **_all_**_] know me, from the least to the greatest._

_I will teach you things that have been hidden from the foundation of the world and your understanding will reach unto Heaven._

_And you shall be called the children of the Most High God, and I will preserve you against the harvest._

_And the angels sent to harvest the world will gather the wicked into bundles to be burned, but will pass over you as my peculiar treasure…_ (T&C 158:10,12-18, emphasis added)

…a second literal Passover. 

The Lord’s “strange act” is approaching completion. The promises made to the Fathers are **being** vindicated. The Restoration has recommenced, and if we’re faithful, it will not be paused or interrupted again. Although Israel’s numbers are few, there have never been great numbers willing to sacrifice everything for God. One requirement for faith has always been the same: _A religion that does not require the sacrifice of all things never has power sufficient to produce the faith necessary unto life and salvation_ (Lectures on Faith 6:7 RE). The Lord has said this about our day: _I tell you that [I] will come, and when [I do] come, [I] will avenge my saints speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, shall [I] find faith on the earth?_ (Luke 10:6 RE).

There are two groups God has (or will) covenant to preserve against the coming harvest. 

-   The first are those who made and keep the covenant the Lord offered in 2017. It changed all those who accepted it into covenant Israel. They have the right to inherit this land and will be preserved. As stated in His “Answer to Prayer for Covenant”: _And the angels sent to harvest the world will gather the wicked into bundles to be burned, but will pass over you as my peculiar treasure_ (T&C 158:18). 
-   The second are those who will become part of the Holy Order and receive and practice the religion of the Fathers. God alone will decide how many and who will be invited into that order. We have no control over it. We have no right to decide who is worthy or unworthy to receive it. It is entirely the Lord’s choice because we are rarely able to determine other people’s hearts. The Lord told Joseph Smith bluntly that he was unable to tell the righteous from the wicked. We are in no better position than was Joseph. Therefore, we should leave it with the Lord to determine whether or not to invite men and women and, if so, who and how many. The Holy Order is as much—or more—a burden as a blessing. 

The Egyptian imitation of the Patriarchal religion kept hidden the most important parts of their religion away from public disclosure. Hugh Nibley explained: 

Bleeker duly notes that “certain parts of temples were inaccessible to ordinary people” and that “the Egyptian temple was not meant to let the masses of the people participate in the religious services.” (_The Message of the Joseph Smith Papyri_, p. 86, citing CJ Bleeker)

This was because: 

The rites, “revealed to men by Osiris, the first mortal to be resurrected,” were nothing less than the “Great Secret” of how mortals may become gods, taught in the temple “the place of the great secret.” (_Ibid._ p. 88, citing A Moret)

Margaret Barker explained the Christian tradition of restricting information available **even to the faithful**. She likened the early Christian practice of concealing some truths from believers by referring to Origen’s _Homily 5 on Numbers_, explaining:

…the secrets of the temple which were guarded by the priests. Commenting on Numbers 4, the instructions for transporting the tabernacle through the desert, he emphasized that the family of Kohath were only permitted to carry the sacred objects but were not permitted to see what was in the holy place; then they had to cover the sacred objects with veils before handling them to others, who were only permitted to carry them. The mysteries of the Church were similar…. (_The Great High Priest_, pp.76-77)Clement of Rome recorded that Peter quoted an unwritten teaching of Christ that admonished: “Keep the mysteries/secrets for me and the sons of my house” (_Clementine Homilies_ 19:20). The resurrected Messiah taught His closest peers things that were **not** told to other believers.

Knowing God’s plans does not always produce immediate joy. Solomon made this comment after a life of learning: _In much wisdom is much grief; and he that increases knowledge increases sorrow_ (Ecclesiastes 1:3 RE). We should not be surprised to learn that initiation into God’s mysteries can be troubling, disquieting, and even a burden. 

If asked to carry a burden by God, do it willingly. If not asked, do not envy. Remember Alma’s statement: _Behold, I am a man, and do sin in my wish, for I ought to be content with the things which the Lord hath allotted unto me_ (Alma 15:12 RE). It is our common enemy who stirs us up to jealousy and envy rather than patience and meekness. Great works of God fail because mankind will not wait on the Lord. 

_Behold, there are many called, but few are chosen, and why are they not chosen? Because their hearts are [so set] upon the things of this world, and aspire to the honors of men, that they do not learn this one lesson — that the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the Powers of Heaven and that the Powers of Heaven cannot be controlled nor handled, only upon the principles of righteousness. …when we undertake to cover our sins or…gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control, or dominion, or compulsion, upon the souls of the children of men in any degree of unrighteousness, behold, the Heavens withdraw themselves, the spirit of the Lord is grieved, and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man._ (T&C 139:5, emphasis added)

The more God gives, the greater the peril. Weaknesses of appetites, ambitions, passions, and covetousness is akin to trying to navigate through a narrow pass, guarded by a great beast, pitiless and cruel, that destroys all those whose zeal and impatience brings them into the reach of the beast (see T&C 163). God has provided to us guidance on how to reach Zion. It requires self-discipline and meekness to follow the Lord rather than racing ahead of Him to destruction.

Take courage! Life was meant to be a living sacrifice, to be lost in the service to God, only by losing your life will you find it. Saving faith is so rare precisely because it requires courage to engage the opposition in this world and to cheerfully endure the abuse, lies, threats and fiery darts sent by those who fear your faith above everything. Faith in God will save you through His grace, it can render every weapon of this world and hell powerless, but it takes courage. When friends betray you and fear overtakes your associates and causes the knees to buckle under the weight of the burdens God allows to be imposed upon you, remember the Lord descended below it all and when He cried out asking for the bitter cup to be removed, there was no relief. He is the prototype of the saved man and the Father loved Him for his sacrifice. It was the Lord’s sacrifice for us that perfected His love for us. He values us because of the great price He paid for each one of us. If you love God you will be given the opportunity to prove your love. You will be proven by the things you endure for His name’s sake. Do not fail.